>> Jen Kramer: And so now the next
thing that we wanna move on to is,
taking a look at Flexbox as a grid system.
Now that we have a sense of what Flexbox
is, the kinds of things that are possible
with it, let's start to think about
Flexbox in terms of a grid system.
And we don't have to think about
this completely from scratch.
It's always helpful to look at
examples that exist already.
I mentioned to you that Bootstrap 4,
is written in a Flexbox
based grid system now.
So you could take a look at that code,
the other place you can take a look at
is here, this is FlexboxGrid.com.
And this particular framework
has been out for a while.
It's just a grid system, so
unlike bootstrap, which has tons of
other stuff, Javascript and styling and
all kinds of things, Flexbox Grid
is just basically a layout grid.
So here's a place where you
can download this code, and
you can take a look at the html and CSS,
get a sense for how it's put together.
Which I'm not gonna take the time to do.
What I'm gonna show you is
basically show you this website,
and you can take a look at the kinds
of properties here that are possible.
And then we can think about how we might
implement some of those things with
Flexbox.
And we'll go ahead and
write together that same grid system,
that we did with earlier with the floats.
We're gonna redo that grid system
once again, this time using Flexbox.
So if you take a look here
at the Flexbox Grid website,
you'll see here that it has a similar
kinds of classes to it from Bootstrap.
So, call hyphen excess hyphen 12.
You know the extra small grid system,
extra small grid size
that occupies 12 columns,
there's a four, a six, an eight.
Small, medium, large, so you can take
a look at all those types of things.
The second chunk down here,
called Fluid, notice the way that
they are handling their sizing here.
So we have flex-basis Of 50% for the call
hyphen extra small hyphen six class.
So again, they're not using width
as we talked about before lunch,
they're using flex basis
to handle width here.
In their system and obviously this
is a six column wide container.
That flex basis property will vary
depending on whether it's a one or
a 12 column container.
If you take a look at it's syntax here,
you'll see that
it is set up basically the same kind of
html syntax that, we have with our floats.
So we have a row, and inside of that,
we have some kind of cells.
And we are gonna do a similar kind of
thing when we write our grid system
here momentarily.
Because of course the row
would be our flex what?
Would array our flex container or
flex item?
So our row would be our flex Container,
and then the individual
items inside are the flex?
Items, correct, so
offsets are possible here.
>> Jen Kramer: They
don't necessarily show exactly how
that's done, but offsets are possible.
You could dig into that code
on your own if you want,
the concept of auto-width is
a really interesting one.
This is actually something else that's in
foundation, foundation six's grid system.
This is the concept you can specify
the width of some of the cells
in your flex box row and
the rest of it, you can just to auto.
It will just figure out
the space that's left, and
divide it up among the number of boxes and
so forth, so that's something you can do.
There's nested grids here are possible, so
you can have well Flexbox grids anyway,
Flexbox grids inside of Flexbox grids.
Just do remember that you do have
to have a parent and a child.
Okay, the flex box container and
the flex item, so
that's one way of setting that up.
Cool alignment options here, this is
related to which Flexbox property that
goes on a parent,
that would be responsible for
these cool kinds of alignments?
>> Jen Kramer: Do
we remember?
>> Speaker 2: Justified content.
>> Jen Kramer: Justified content, exactly.
So justified content, flex start,
flex end, center, all those things.
So you can implement those here.
So in this case we have a cell
in our Flexbox layout, and
it doesn't occupy the full 12 columns,
we can use different types of alignment to
push that around inside of its row.
>> Jen Kramer: You
can do the same kinda thing vertically,
so you could have different
heights of columns and align them.
Maybe you don't always want
them aligned to the top,
which is often what we actually
want with a grid system.
Or equal height boxes, but
you can lay these out differently using
which Flexbox property for the cross axis?
Justified content is for the main access,
which is the cross access equivalent.
>> Speaker 2: [CROSSTALK]
>> Jen Kramer: Align items.
And then we can also of course
distribute things in different orders,
anybody remember the properties,
values here for these?
This is justify content.
>> Speaker 2: Space around.
>> Jen Kramer: Space around, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Space between.
>> Jen Kramer: Space between, yeah, so
see how you can already look
at a Flexbox grid system and
have a sense of how it's coded,
without even reading the code?
Okay, they have reordering options, and
we do that with what property?
>> Speaker 2: Order one.
>> Jen Kramer: Order property,
we just give it some numbers, We can
even reverse things in a row, right?
Okay, so there's lots and
lots of options here, for
working with Flexbox based Grid system.
That weren't necessarily possible
with our floats, so notably,
things like reversing orders here The
re-ordering was possible with floats, but
I would argue that we can do
it to a way greater extent,
with a lot less code with Flexbox,
than we did with floats.
And of course, then we have
the interesting spacing options and so
forth, that were not
possible with floats either